so we all have the experience at some
point or another of people becoming
vegan or trying veganism because of our
personal influence if you've never had
that experience and you've been vegan
for a couple of years I guess I can say
I pity you I don't keep track I don't
keep a tally and if you're seriously
keeping track you wouldn't just keep
track of how many people try veganism
because of your influence you wouldn't
keep track of just how many people say
they're interested in it or say they're
becoming vegan you'd have to keep track
of a few years down the line who is
still really doing it so I mentioned
here on you nail on a live broadcast a
few days ago there's a woman here who I
talked to you like four months ago about
veganism and she just told me the other
day I guess two days ago now she took me
aside she was actually interrupting me I
was out with another woman on a non date
um it's not a date unless I say it's a
day people and this woman came over to
me and she said oh you know I want to
let you know like I stopped eating meat
and she used words in Chinese that don't
clearly mean vegan but it meant she
stopped eating meat and she went
somewhere on the vegan - vegetarian
spectrum so I was really happy for her
and this is the other thing about this
woman so this woman is a business woman
in the neighborhood now obviously I
don't know her whole story but she seems
to be an independent self-reliant
reasonably successful businesswoman
that's my impression of her it could be
totally wrong I mean obviously you know
you meet anyone you don't know maybe
maybe in reality she's a recovered
gambling addict with thousands of
dollars in debt you never know but
anyway that is how she appears and her
and I never had any connection but one
of the memorable things about her for me
was that when I first started to this
school I remember there were a couple of
guys maybe three of the other students
at the school who were talking about
what a crush they had on her and
whatever not hitting the player not
hitting the game but I remember to me
that was another one of these weird
examples where it seems like there were
a lot of white guys in China who really
idealize the the self-made businesswoman
like I like you know it's not the cheese
ugly or anything
but I don't you know I don't think I
don't think it's her looks that made her
appealing to these guys there are a lot
of white guys here who want I mean I
think that's that's part of why they
prefer Chinese women whether you think
of that culturally or otherwise is that
you know obviously there are all kinds
you can be the Chinese one one who's a
farmer or humanitarian one who runs a
farm you can meet a Chinese woman who
does who's a medical doctor or whatever
but I think disproportionately the type
of white men who come here and lean for
a girlfriend they want a woman who who
wear shoulder pads and takes care of
business
get the self-reliance business acumen
mentally sharp these are kind of the
characters of that's anyway
disproportionate a lot of the what kinds
here like that but anyway so this woman
I really think four months ago she
talked about veganism and just being
completely honest I don't think there's
any romantic component there's only
there's any flirtatious component this
when she talked to me about it she
mostly just seemed freaked out by the
idea and maybe one of the morals to this
story maybe one of the lessons you guys
can draw from this is that sometimes
people being freaked out is actually a
good sign because it means they're
taking it seriously it means they're
really thinking about it it means it
really challenges their preconceptions
it challenges their yeah it challenges
their cultural values or whatever you
know what I mean um so much talking
about she didn't seem positive at all
you know to be blunt she just seemed
kind of freaked out and now I do not
remember I mean we're talking in Chinese
this is the other thing um she has
behaved in front of me and in front of
like all the other men from this school
because we're just in the same
neighborhood she just owns a business in
this neighborhood but you know she knows
about the school and other foreigners
from the school you know passed by her
business or walk into it or what have
you
um she's really a neighborhood
connection uh I don't think she's ever
spoken English in front of any of the
other male students because I remember
those guys who had the crush on her they
also thought she couldn't speak in
English what have you um so we spoke
entirely in Chinese and what I mostly
remember her asking about she was
genuinely doubting whether or not it was
possible in terms of health and I was
really just trying to say to her was
really trying to get across to her like
it's not easy I don't tell people it's
easy to be vegan I said it's not easy
but I can do it so you can do it I'm
doing it every day and I said look I
lift more than a hundred kilograms at
the gym which I did at the time and I
weigh more than a hundred kilograms
which I did at the time I'm now down to
94 kilograms as of a joking about lately
but anyway if I can do it you can do it
and you know again I don't know we did
we talked about some of the other
aspects of veganism I don't remember it
for detail and she is a typically small
Chinese woman she is small and slender
by Chinese standards she isn't extremely
tiny probably about Western sensuous but
I mean really I I tower over her in my
bulk in my mass I'm six foot three
ninety four kilograms these days etc so
that's I weigh more than 200 pounds I do
workout at the gym so I do not know if
that's part of what made an impression
on her but honestly so we had some
conversations with that months and
months ago and I think she was reminded
of it just by meeting me again by seeing
me again what she did from time to time
but also I think the only other thing
that influenced her was you know at one
point I've told some funny engines about
this this again relates to my romance
life or my mine on sex life or whatever
but you know um at one point I made this
poster that explained in Chinese it had
totally respectable pictures of me but
explain to Chinese look I'm in my late
30s I'm learning Chinese I'm looking for
other students to be my language
partners to be conversation partners
like ie I help them speak English they
help me practice my Chinese but it's
said explicitly one of the main emphasis
would look I'm old it would really be
best if I could meet someone over 25 was
what it said and it actually had some
words in there like I realized the
majority of people learning languages
are under 25 so maybe can work out but
ideally I'd like to meet someone close
to my own age for this kind of language
practice and I have already joked about
this on the live streams I don't
I don't think I've mentioned this on
YouTube but like every single response I
got to that poster which was completely
unsexy and unromantic it was just bull
it was people trying to get laid
and one of them with her first photo oh
sorry sir her first email to me included
a nude photo crap like it's not that
kind of poster but in with this this
poster because I wanted to show that it
was my own handwriting so the poster its
photocopied as a photo of me and it
explains this stuff in Chinese in my
Chinese handwriting obviously I could
type it on a computer but the point is
to show I'm a student I'm trying hard
I'm trying to learn this language so it
had handwritten Chinese and aside from
that point that I'm old and trying to
meet people studying language for a bit
older um older than average older than
the average university student for sure
the main thing that said about me
was that I'm vegan you know I'm vegan
and I used to live in Cambodia and now
I'm living in China
um yeah thank you and the last year so
it's not that kind of poster really it's
not really it's not but you know I went
around to local businesses in the
neighborhood with it because it's again
it's not that kind of poster it's not a
deeply personal poster and I did go into
her business and I chatted with her
briefly and hand her the poster so that
was more recently like let's say that
was two months ago or something I think
that probably was maybe the turning
point or reminded her of this thing
called veganism I just even though I
didn't preach it just said I am vegan
you know as part of my description of
Who I am what I'm doing alive um so I
mentioned this two days ago the other
day when she interrupted me on my
non-date I really didn't have time to
talk to her but I was like oh that's
wonderful and I only knew that she
became some kind of vegetarian some kind
of meat avoiding person but it wasn't
really clear that she became vegan and I
decided to write her a letter again in
handwritten Chinese because one of them
at that moment so again I'm with this
other woman and I I'm busy I kind of got
to go and I've been speaking English
it's not that easy for me to switch from
English in Chinese but I said to her
basic like Oh like I'm so happy to hear
that
you know I'm a vegan activist so the
word for activist in Chinese here is GG
funds and that's actually has a very
positive meaning in Chinese so in
English if you say you're an activist
there's a little bit of mmm little bit
of AA blocky it's not necessarily a good
thing it's not even a neutral thing to
describe yourself as an activist in
English I think people regard you with
mmm it can be seemed too pretentious to
say that you're an activist or people
will assume you're attached to some kind
of radical politics that are looked down
upon to be blunt
anyway um in Chinese that word really
has a totally positive meaning to say
that you're an activist about something
which is so interesting and also I just
mention you can use it in a more
informal way it's not necessarily a
political activist you could say for
example the Chinese you can say oh I
have a crush on this girl so I'm trying
to be an activist like I'm trying to you
know advance the relationship or some of
that so they use it in a very broad
sense but they do use it also
specifically for political activism so
when I said it to her I said oh you know
I'm happy because I'm a vegan activist
she just burst out laughing in a totally
natural way
I think she had absolutely never thought
to put those two words together or those
two concepts together
you know like vegan activist she uh you
know I don't blame her but whatever
however she thought of veganism remember
many people here in China become vegan
because they're attached to Buddhism or
Taoism they become vegan for other
reasons right but the the thought of
veganism being a form of political
activism this was still new and strange
to her even though she had met me and
talked to me about health aspects of
veganism she'd become to some extent
vegan so I went back today just like one
hour ago now or something and I wrote
her a handwritten letter and the
handwritten letter in Chinese case II
think writing writing by hand in Chinese
is easy it isn't it isn't it isn't even
easy for native speakers it's
time-consuming to write out a letter and
hand by Chinese but I gave her a
handwritten letter and it really
explained look you know I'm happy he
told me that she stopped eating meat and
it didn't say I'm happy that you became
vegan it
said I'm happy you told me you stopped
eating because I didn't really know I
really know how vegan she was or how
thinking she was and you know you don't
want to be presumptive you don't want to
insult people um and she um sorry and it
said to her look I'm a vegan activist
and it basically just broke down the
concept of veganism as a social movement
so is explaining in Chinese you know
veganism is not just a diet it is a
social movement it is a form of activism
and here's why and how I am a vegan
activist you know here's what it means
to mean here's what I do
and including mentioning of course you
guys on YouTube it said you know I make
videos on YouTube and it described our
society as being in a transition in the
next 100 years because the majority of
people still do not know that it is
possible to be healthy and be vegan
which is very honest and very true thing
to say there's still just doubt but
whether or not it's possible and there's
still these misconceptions so said you
know we're in a period of transition in
the next 100 years of educating the
public and engaging in a form of
political struggle for animal rights for
ecology and really just to let people
know about the vegan diet how important
it is but yes so obviously I could I
mean I could read out the letter in
Chinese but would it help you guys much
but it did it did also emphasize so it
just from memory but summarize what I
said in this letter it also said you
know right now the type of people who
become vegan activists are very diverse
you know there's a lot of a lot of
diversity some people become vegan
activist mostly because they care about
the health of their own bodies some
people become activists mostly because
they want to help animals animal rights
and some people become vegan activist
due to ecological concerns do
environmental concerns they're aware
that the meat industry is destroying the
world's environment and some people are
vegan because they are traditional
Buddhists or traditional Hindus and it's
all I said about that I obviously I
could talk a great length about the fact
that the wave
veganism fits into both both Buddhist
and Hindu tradition is complex and
problematic so I said this kind of stuff
in this letter again so I was joking
it's not that guy but it's now that it's
not a deeply personal letter but it does
also say look you know here's my email
if you want to be in touch with me and
you know I'm so happy you joined the
team so I went there today to give her
this letter and I just met it's actually
it was freezing cold outside I may have
so whatever kind of bundled up I go over
to give her this letter and I just say
to her Channel yeah hi hi because you
told me you stopped eating me don't want
to give you this this letter and so on
and actually she was there with a friend
and this is also a very Chinese thing
again I have no reason to think I don't
think this woman has a crush on me I
have no reason to think that maybe she
does but um in Chinese culture they very
often have another person instigate for
you like instigate the conversation or
just instigate whatever it is like you
know in Chinese culture just give you an
example you often give a compliment
indirectly so like if if three people
are sitting at a dinner table I won't
say to the person who made the food I
won't say to the cook you made this
really well I'll say to the third person
I'll say she made this really well
you'll give the compliment by telling
someone else so you just socially they
tend to ropey and other people in the
situation so there was another person
there who a friend of hers and this
friend of hers jumped in and said I want
you to know she started baking cakes
vegan she started baking with no eggs
and no milk and they gave me an example
they were like yeah the vegan banana
cake turned out well and it was one of
those moments where like obviously a lot
of the time in Chinese I don't
understand what people are saying just
because I don't speak Chinese that well
I don't know the vocabulary but I kind
of a moment where them think these fresh
fruit face is like just shocked cuz I
didn't even know if she was really vegan
you know at all and to me that's a
really high level of engagement with and
commitment begins okay so it's not
you're not just reduced to terian
you're not just vegetarian but she's
taking it to the next level
of trying to develop you know vegan
baking as a sideline and she didn't say
it but again my impression was and for
much reason is there that you know she's
actually interested in getting this
going as like a small business on the
side you know like you know I don't know
how serious with that but that you know
this is okay the other thing is again
like you know this is someone like she
and I aren't friends we've never been
friends and there's no real connection
between us but all of a sudden it's like
um do you want to get married like what
are you doing the next 10 years it's
like suddenly it's like I want to be
your best friend you know if you're
actually vegan and you actually are
baking cakes vegan and maybe you're even
gonna do this as part of you know as
some kind of small business or something
it's like wow you know before I was
really just doing a mitzvah this was
just someone I was reaching out to and
someone I was delighted a bunch of
casual conversations between her and I
about veganism had ended up inspiring
her to try being vegan that was all I
knew at the start that's only did the
[ __ ] she had been trying and then you
have the shock of learning that they're
they're really pretty serious about
veganism so you think wow a couple of
casual conversations led to that
consequence and then you know you think
oh wow is this somebody so you know I
was just giving her this letter really
is a kind of outreach or kind of support
right I'm sure she doesn't know a lot of
vacancy rate good saying look if you
want to get in touch with me here's my
email and if you want to know about my
website you know and also trying to
communicate Constantine isin then all of
a sudden you think wow maybe this is
somebody I'm still gonna know five years
from now maybe this is still gonna be
somebody I know ten years from now and
as you guys know I'm happy to have just
friends if I mean there's no there's no
real romantic component to or anything
but you just suddenly the way you look
at this person who is only a casual
acquaintance of yours you know it
changes